
The Impact of Employer Education Assistance on Enrollment

Policymakers incentivized higher education enrollment through the creation of Section 127 of the United States Internal Revenue Code.
This policy provides a tax deduction to employers that provide financial assistance for employee education.
This paper finds that before and after extensive correction, the policy fails to increase enrollment meaningfully.
Evidence from 1992 through 2017 indicates adverse linear and total effects of interest.
H-1B policy is explored as a correction variable and emerges as a comparatively preferred policy tool.
Results are validated using vector autoregression (VAR), dynamic ordinary least squares (DOLS), and instrumental variable (IV) analysis.

Introduction
The passage of Public Law 95-600 in 1978 created Section 127.
Section 127 provides for a limited employer tax deduction for the transfer of money to an employee for educational purposes.
This paper tests the hypothesis that the effect of Section 127 employer assistance on total university enrollment is positive.
Results show that employer assistance has a positive marginal effect on enrollment and negative linear and total effects.
Evidence indicates that H-1B visa policy is a comparatively effective policy instrument for enrollment, national student loan debt, and the price of education.

Total enrollment is one of a few policy concerns related to Section 127.
The paper concludes by asking whether the results observed represent policy success.
In summary, how do Section 127 results over time relate to its policy goals?
This paper finds that Section 127 has achieved partial success, but several changes are advisable.

Figure \ref{fig:intro_enroll_assistance} illustrates university enrollment over time
and the real maximum deductible amount for Section 127 educational assistance.
This paper hypothesizes that the apparent inverse relation is a superficial result of variable omission.
Analysis in this paper controls extensively for dynamic policy and economic variation.
The use of multiple specifications ensures the robustness of findings.
In one specification, vector autoregression (VAR) provides evidence on utility as a policy instrument.

Methodology
This paper broadly explores Section 127 effects in comparison to its policy goals.
The focus of this broad conversation is the identification of the policy effect on total enrollment.
This identification proceeds from statistical analysis across multiple specifications.
This paper operationalizes total enrollment as a representation of one of the original Section 127 policy goals.

The Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM)  identifies three original policy goals for the passage of Section 127.
The third policy goal is to incentivize upward mobility by providing funds for higher education.
As a result, this paper takes total enrollment as the dependent variable.

Specifications begin with an ordinary least squares (OLS) investigation.
Finding significant time effects justifies and motivates further analysis.
Dynamic ordinary least squares replicates the importance of time effects, and also addresses concerns on potential autocorrelation.
Finally, a vector autoregression indicates that certain policy changes
are candidate policy instruments.

Simple Supply-Side Explanations
Simple Demand-Side Explanations
Empirical Model
This paper takes multiple steps to ensure robustness and analytical completeness.
The final results are consistent across three empirical specifications.
In addition to the variable of interest, this paper tests two other left-hand variables.
Testing these two secondary dependent variables of interest improves confidence in the theoretical and applied soundness of the conclusion.

Total postsecondary enrollment in the United States is the dependent variable.
The Section 127 policy effect is the right-hand parameter of interest in the first two specifications.
Equation \ref{eq1} is the first specification of interest. This model is an ordinary least squares model.
Here, $\alpha$ is a $1*k$ vector of coefficients, and $V$ is a $k*1$ vector of annually observed independent variables.

Y_t = \alpha{V_{t}}+u_t

Policy variables exist for federal lending policy, veteran education benefits, and H-1 Visa policy.
Two additional non-policy variables include time, in years, and the real price of university tuition plus mandatory fees.

Equation \ref{eq2} describes the next specification.
This model follows the Anderson–Hsiao pattern with the lagged variable of interest as an instrument.
This specification investigates concerns of potential endogeneity in the dependent variable.
It is both an instrumental variable model and also a dynamic ordinary least squares (DOLS) model.

z_t = \delta{W_{t}}+D{Y_{t-2}}+g_t

Here, $\beta$ is a $1*l$ vector of coefficients, and $W$ is an $l*1$ vector of annually observed independent variables.
$z$ is the instrument, and it is a projection of lagged enrollment derived from twice-lagged enrollment.
Equation \ref{eq3} explicitly derives $z$.

$l$ is a transformation of $k$ from Equation \ref{eq1}.
$l$ contains five variations of each variable in $k$.
The first variation is the non-transformed value.
The other variations include the first and second lags and differences for each variable in $k$.

The third specification is a vector autoregression (VAR) model.
Six related models follow the general reduced form
described in Equation \ref{eq:applied_naiive_var}.
This first model following this functional form is a two-variable case.
This first model is similar to the previous non-VAR
specifications because it identifies the effect of
real employer assistance on total enrollment.
A second model follows the same form, but the independent variable is H-1B visa issuance, instead of Section 127 assistance.

v_t = \alpha_0 + \alpha_1{v_{t-1}} + \alpha_2{v_{t-2}} + ... + \alpha_i{v_{t-i}} + u_t
V_t = \alpha_0 + \alpha_1{v_{1, t-1}} + \alpha_2{v_{2, t-1}} + ... + \alpha_{ik-1}{v_{k-1, t-i}} + \alpha_{ik}{v_{k, t-i}} + u_t
Y_t = \sigma_k{V_{kt}}+e_t

Equation \ref{eq:univariate_var} is a univariate autoregression.
Dependent and independent variables are uniformly represented by $v_t$.
An ordinary least squares function of $i$ lags explains the current-period value of the variable in the univariate regression.
Equation \ref{eq:naiive_multi_var} extends this operation to $k$ variables.
Notice that $V_t$ is not a collection of univariate $v_t$.
Instead, it is a $k*k$ vector, a constant, and an error term.

Equation \ref{eq:applied_naiive_var}
obtains $V_t$ as specified in Equation \ref{eq:univariate_var}
for all variables in $k$, then fits an ordinary least squares model across $V_kt$ to explain the current-period dependent variable, $Y_t$.
Section 127 effects turn out to be insignificant in the specification described by Equation \ref{eq:applied_naiive_var}, but H-1B effects are significant.
As a result, all four remaining VAR equations use H-1B issuance as the independent variable.

Two of the four remaining models are three-variable extensions of the prior specification.
These two models extend Equation \ref{eq:applied_naiive_var} by adding a second stage response.
In the first case, the second-order response is federal student loan debt.
In the second case, the second-order response is the price of higher education.
David Schenk suggests Cholesky decomposition as a method of generating an ordered impulse-response function from a VAR.
Equations \ref{eq:make_structural_shocks} and \ref{eq:link_covariance_error} describe Cholesky identification.

e_t = Bu_t
= E(Bu_tu_t'B')
= B E(u_t u_t') B'
= B B'

The left-hand error term in Equation \ref{eq:make_structural_shocks}, $e_t$, is the same as in Equation \ref{eq:applied_naiive_var}.
The right-hand of Equation \ref{eq:make_structural_shocks} defines $B$, which is the coefficient matrix for $u_t$.
Structural, or uncorrelated, errors are defined as $u_t$.
Endogenous error in $B$ allows us to estimate the effects of arbitrary innovation in some variable in $V_k$.

The reduced form $BB'$ in Equation \ref{eq:link_covariance_error} matches many matrices.
There does exist a unique lower-triangle matrix that satisfies
the equality statement with $\Sigma$, the covariance matrix of the errors.
Selecting the lower-triangle represents analyst stipulation of the order in which effects are realized.
The order imposed is called a Cholesky ordering.
This paper selects theoretically-grounded Cholesky orderings.

The last two models in the six-model VAR family are also simple two-factor VAR models.
These models test the hypothesis that enrollment effects are extraneous
to the effects of H-1B policy on student loans and the price of higher education.
The form of these models follows the specification in Equation \ref{eq:applied_naiive_var}, but the independent and response variables are different.
H-1B issuance is the independent variable.
The response variable is federal student loan debt in one case.
The price of higher education is the response variable in the other case.

Description of Data
Models in this paper use a subset of seven high-level variables.
Enrollment figures for all degree-granting postsecondary institutions in the United States
are provided by the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES).
Enrollment figures are for the fall semester of the school year.

For the same group of institutions, NCES elsewhere provides data about average tuition and required fees.
This study uses price information for full-time undergraduate students.
Prices do not include the cost of room and board.
Cost information exists through the year 2016
Cost information reflects real prices.
2016 is the base year for Consumer Price Index (CPI) adjustment.

Section 127 took effect on January 1, 1979, with a nominal assistance limit of 5,000 dollars.
In October 1986, Pub. L. 99–514 increased the nominal assistance limit to 5,250 dollars.
Combining nominal assistance over time with CPI and education-specific inflation data yields two real measures of inflation.
Section 127 was renewed several times over the years.
A dummy variable exists for a partilularly important change realized in 2013.
In that year, the employer assistance deduction became permanent.

Stafford loan limits impact the supply of loanable funds, which indirectly modifies demand for education.
Stafford data also broadly proxies non-military federal student aid policy.
There are two variables for Stafford loans.
The first variable is the nominal loan limit for undergraduates.
The second variable is a dummy variable.
The dummy variable indicates whether the undergraduate loan limit is the combined limit for undergraduate and graduate loans.
A policy change in 1993 grouped these limits.
FinAid provides the Stafford loan data used in this study.

Visa policy is the fifth high-level variable.
The number of H-1B visas issued each year is an essential variable in this study.
The Immigration Act of 1990 decomposed the existing H-1 visa into distinct H-1A and H-1B categories.
Later legislation established the H-1B1, H-1C, and many other visa classifications, but these are mostly inapplicable to the present research.
The H-1B visa is most relevant for this study because it relates explicitly to the undergraduate degree.
The Immigration Act of 1990 makes available the H-1B classification for specialized workers, or workers in a specialty occupation.
That legislation formally defines a specialty occupation as "an occupation that requires...attainment of a bachelor's or higher degree..."
The period of analysis for this study is constrained to begin with the advent of H-1B data in 1990.
As earlier mentioned, tuition data constraints the end of the analysis to 2016.

H-1 visas are a subgroup of nonimmigrant visas.
The Bureau of Consular Affairs provides nonimmigrant visa award data by classification
from 1987 to 2019.
This paper exclusively uses the most relevant H-1B visa award numbers, but reanalysis with other visa classifications could yield statistically significant findings.
The prior H-1 visa was also a merit worker visa, but it had no formal definition of merit.
It is plausible that the college-educated effect informally existed before the 1990 legislation.
One might also find small but significant effects by looking into visas outside the H-1 family.
Besides the number of actual visa awards, an analyst could look for visa cap effects or visa policy state effects.
For example, the Pew Research Center notes that the American Competitiveness in the 21st Century Act of 2000 exempts certain entities from the H-1B cap.

Actual federal loans stand in contrast to loan limits, which are represented by the Stafford loan limit variable.
Loan limits are a policy choice, but after correcting for loan limits, the actual amount of loans made primarily represents a demand effect.
As such, we would not want to correct for actual loans.
That would wipe out the effect of interest, which is the demand effect attributable to various policies, and Section 127 employer educational assistance in particular.

Loan data generates results as a left-hand variable of secondary interest, rather than as an independent variable.
The variable I use in this regard is total federal undergraduate loans.
College Board provides loan data.
College Board also gives the additional context in a report which is related to the loan data.
The additional context suggests that an analysis that decomposes federal loans by type could yield preferred statistical results.

The final subset of data desrcibes veteran education benefits policy.
Each year in the data set is associated with some veteran education policy.
Veteran policy effects are a high-level variable which technically decompose into seven dummy variables.
A series of seven dummy variables capture veteran education policy effects.
The seven variables cover the period from 1944 to 2022.
The Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944 is also called the G.I. Bill.
The original bill expired in 1956.
The period from 1944 to 1956 is positively associated with the first dummy variable.

The Veterans Educational Assistance Program (VEAP) passed in 1981.
The third period of interest ends in 1984 with the enactment of the Montgomery GI Bill.
The fourth period of interest ends in 2009 with the Post-9/11 GI Bill.
Finally, many benefits from the Forever GI Bill became effective in 2018, with additional provisions taking effect in 2020 and 2022.

Because of time sample constraints on other variables, there is only a single variation in veteran education benefits during the period of analysis.
This is the enactment of the Post-9/11 GI Bill in 2009.
This factor does prove to be significant in the preferred model.

Recent changes in veteran education benefits and in Section 127
represent critical caveats for any attempt at forecasting outside of the period of study.
As mentioned, the Forever GI Bill lays out several important changes in veteran benefits in the years to come.
Under the CARES Act, Section 127 was amended to provide a new benefit on a temporary basis.
The new benefit is that employers may assist employees in paying down existing student loan debt, rather than only paying for new expenses, in a tax deductable way.
Under current law, the CARES Act changes to employer assistance will apply only during the year 2020.

Results
Multiple Regression Results
The key independent variable is the real value of Section 127 assistance.
Ordinary least squares (OLS) multiple regressions of visa effects, time, and tuition were run against both total enrollment and public university enrollment.
Total enrollment was more predictable than public university enrollment, so it was selected as the preferred enrollment variable.

With total enrollment as the explained variable, a kitchen sink multiple regression was used to select the most influential factor from among each factor group.
The total number of visas issued across classification, the Stafford loan limit, and measures of tuition were identified as insignificant.
Table \ref{tab:table_mols} is a table of regressions that helps illustrate that, somewhat surprisingly, real measures of employer assistance capture price and inflation effects in a preferred way
compared to using a more direct measure of tuition.

Tuition is insignificant in model 1.
Replacing tuition with PCE and education-deflated employer assistance in model 2 identifies the latter
with significance at the 0.1 level and also improves the overall explanatory power of the model.
Real employer education assistance, which is solely corrected for the price of education, is eventually preferred to the multiple-deflated measure.
This makes the education-deflated real employer assistance limit the preferred Section 127 variable.
After deciding on this variable as the preferred measure, quadratic, cubic, and interaction transformations are investigated.
The interaction of Section 127 policy and visa effects turns out to be small in magnitude, low significance, and in possession of a sign which is sensitive to specification.

Model 4 is preferred out of the models presented in Table \ref{tab:table_mols}.
While model 1 has the highest r-squared value, model 4 has an adjusted r-squared equal to model 1.
Model 4 is the result of a thorough nonlinear investigation, while models 1 and 2 are not.
Model 3 is challenging to interpret.
For example, interpreting the H-1B visa policy effect is not
straightforward, both because a linear effect is missing in the model
and also because other H-1 variables are present which make pure H-1B
effect attribution impossible.

All four models exhibit high explanatory power, but model 4 makes interpretation simple.
The linear effect of real Section 127 assistance is insignificant and negative with low confidence.
The marginal effect is highly significant and positive but decreasingly positive.
The total effect in the relevant range is also positive\footnote{
Elimination of nonlinear effects from the preferred model acts as a robustness check, identifies the direction of the total effect in the relevant range, and maintains significance for all factors.
The real Section 127 assistance coefficient has a point estimate of 623 in such a model, and the H-1B visa issuance coefficient takes a value of about -15.
This indicates that a real increase to Section 127 assistance would further boost enrollment, but such increases would be decreasingly effective.

H-1 visa effects are complex and meaningful across specifications.
The preferred model identifies a significant negative linear effect on enrollment
from H-1B visa issuance.
There is an insignificant positive marginal effect and a total negative effect.
While the preferred model focuses on H-1B effects, the results are generalizable to the H-1 family.
Substituting H-1 total issuance for the linear H-1B variable improves
linear visa effect significance, although it does not improve raw or adjusted explanatory power for the model overall.
That move also is not preferred because the linear effect and the marginal visa effects would then correspond to different measures.

Time is the most consistently significant variable across multiple regressive models.
Time, measured in years, intuitively possesses a positive linear effect and a negative marginal effect on total enrollment.
The total effect of time over the period of the analysis is also strongly positive.
A simple regression of time on total enrollment has an adjusted r-squared of about .95.
Simple identification of time effects motivates further analysis using specifications that are explicitly dynamic.

Dynamic Ordinary Least Squares Results
Dynamic ordinary least squares (DOLS) models supplement multiple regressive analysis in at least two ways.
First, autocorrelation can be removed using lagged variables in an Anderson–Hsiao adjustment.
Second, atemporal marginal effects can be tested against marginal effects in a dynamic context, which improves model utility in an applied context.

Table \ref{tab:table_dols} compares selected variables from two models of interest.
Selected variables include any variable which appears in both models.
The first model of interest is the preferred multiple regression with an Anderson-Hsiao adjustment.
The Anderson-Hsiao adjustment involves three changes that allow an analyst to address an issue of actual or potential autocorrelation in the dependent variable.
The first step in the adjustment is to leverage an instrumental variable regression instead of an ordinary least squares regression.
The second step is to pick a particular instrumental variable, often called the Anderson-Hsiao estimator.
The Anderson-Hsiao estimator is a twice lagged first difference of the dependent variable.
The third step is to replace the dependent variable with the first difference of itself.
After taking these three steps, overlapping periods are removed from the model, addressing potential autocorrelation over time.
The second model of interest is the preferred DOLS model.

The preferred dynamic OLS model obtains an adjusted r-squared of about 0.85.
In contrast, the simple adjustment to the preferred multiple regression
obtains an adjusted r-squared of about 0.26.
A surprising result is that the Anderson-Hsiao estimator is insignificant
across various specifications, including the preferred DOLS model (p = 0.51).
Time effects are independently significant in the model.
These results indicate the absence of autocorrelation.
Instead, time efficiently proxies unobserved independent effects.

While the Anderson-Hsiao estimator is insignificant, dropping that variable and running an ordinary regression reduces adjusted r-squared to 0.82, but all independent factors retain significance.
This demonstrates comparative model robustness over the preferred multiple regression.
For this reason, the preferred DOLS model, with or without instrumentation, is preferred to the preferred multiple regression identified as
model 4 in Table \ref{tab:table_mols}.

Lagged employer assistance effects are insignificant when explaining the first difference in total enrollment.
The first and second differences are significant.
The current period linear and marginal effects are also significant.
The first difference and the current period marginal effects are both significant and positively signed.
This indicates that raising assistance within-period and between periods are both expected to boost enrollment at the margin.
Both marginal effects follow an Inada-like pattern, where the marginal effect is decreasingly positive.
The linear effect on employer assistance is significant and negative.

Model 6, the preferred model, is fit to the years 1992 through 2017.
The total effect of employer assistance over that period is now calculated using that model.
The average values for the relevant independent variables over this period include
an average real assistance limit of 13942.22, an average squared assistance limit of $2.56x10^8$, an average first difference in assistance of -1228.18, and an average second difference of 122.87.
Based on these values, the total effect of employer assistance over the model period is
a decrease in enrollment by about 3.34 million\footnote{
The total effect is the rounded result of solving $X=-220.1953*13942.22+(2.56*10^8)*.0054062+1314.489*-1228.18-355.0654*122.87$.
Suppose a steady-state, where Section 127 assistance has been constant for more than three periods.
In this situation, a \$1,000 increase over the next period would result in a value of \$1,000 for the first and second differences.
In this situation, the effect of a dynamic \$1,000 real increase to employer assistance would be
to increase enrollment by about 7.45 million\footnote{
The period-over-period effect from a steady-state is computed as $X=-220.1953*1000+.0054062*1000*1000+1314.489*1000-355.0654*1000$.

First-difference, lagged, and current H-1B visa effects are all significant, but linear visa effects are not significant.
DOLS specification reveals significant lagged marginal effects and positive lagged cubic effects.
The lagged linear effect is isomorphic to the first difference in this specification, and the first difference is positive.
The total lagged effect indicates that as lagged period visa count increases, the expected change in current period visa issuance is both positive and eventually increasingly positive.

Other than lagged effects, dynamic visa effects are consistent with an insightful refinement of
visa effects identified under multiple regression analysis.
For example, an insignificant positive quadratic effect is identified in the preferred ordinary multiple regression.
In the preferred DOLS, a positive marginal effect is identified with significance.
A negative first difference is also identified with significance.
It makes sense that forcing these related and opposing marginal effects into a single variable would lead
to insignificance in a non-dynamic specification.

Using a dynamic specification, we can see that marginal effects within and between periods are stable, but they move in different directions.
Moreover, both of these marginal effects have an attenuating higher-order counterpart.
The positive static marginal effect is attenuated by a negative cubic effect.
The negative dynamic static marginal effect is attenuated by a positive and significant second-difference coefficient.

It is important to note that DOLS models explain a slightly smaller period of analysis because of the use of lagged variables.
While the preferred multiple regression covers 27 annual samples from 1990 to 2016, the preferred DOLS model obtains a sample size of 25 over the period from 1992 to 2016.

In summary, DOLS analysis demonstrates non-robustness in the preferred non-dynamic model, then provides a preferred alternative model.
This paper fails to uncover evidence of autocorrelation.

Vector Autoregression Results
Vector autoregression (VAR) improves on DOLS specifically for the purpose
of identifying policy instruments and effects over many periods.
The difference and lag effects of the first and second orders were arbitrarily selected DOLS analysis.
In contrast, VAR lag selection techniques involve non-arbitrary selection criteria.

Employer assistance, visa, and time effects are the only factors in the preferred dynamic model.
Prior analysis ruled out the significance of an interaction variable between
visa and employer assistance effects.
As a result, the two initial VAR models are both simple, two-variable models.

For the employer assistance model, an extended sample of 43 observations
over the period from 1974 to 2016 is used.
For the H-1B model, 24 samples over the period from 1994 to 2017 are used.
Ivanov and Kilian find that the Schwarz Information Criterion, also called Schwarz's Bayesian information criteria (SBIC), is the most accurate selection criterion for sample sizes less than 120.

Because this analysis uses fewer than 120 samples, the selection is determined by SBIC.
In addition to SBIC, unanimous agreement on lag selection for both models is achieved using the likelihood ratio (LR), the final prediction error (FPE), Akaike Information Criterion (AIC), and Hannan-Quinn Information Criterion (HQIC).
For both models, the optimal lag length is identified at two periods.
The p-value for the optimal lag was less than 0.001 for both models.

VAR results for employer assistance are directionally consistent with prior analysis.
A positive shock to employer assistance is associated with a downward parabola curve response.
The response, however, is not significant for any period, even when using a 60 percent confidence interval.

VAR results for an H-1B policy impulse are significant.
A positive shock to H-1B issuance is also associated with a downward parabolic response.
The H-1B policy effect is insignificant for the first two periods, but it reaches a significant positive effect in the third period.
The positive effect plateaus in the seventh period, then it reverses and reaches permanent insignificance in the eleventh period.

Increased enrollment reflects an increase in demand which is associated with
increased tuition and debt both theoretically and in the present data\footnote{
A simple regression of total enrollment on total federal loans yields a
positive coefficient with a p-value less than 0.001 and an adjusted r-squared
of 0.973.
A simple regression of total enrollment on CPI-adjusted real tuition yields a
positive coefficient with a p-value less than 0.001 and an adjusted r-squared
of 0.915.
From a policy perspective, increasing enrollment may not be desirable.
Higher education has a great return from an individual perspective, but there are several concerns from a social perspective.
Examples include concerns about grade inflation, credential inflation, experience inflation, and the social return to education spending abound.
For example, Forbes magazine recently pointed out that the price of college is increasing almost eight times faster than wages.
Edvisors notes that the average tuition inflation rate is double the average CPI-U.
Many in the media consider the size of federal student loan debt to be a crisis.
Because H-1B policy is an enrollment instrument, and enrollment is directly related to loans and real tuition, further analysis investigates a downstream effect of H-1B policy on loans or real tuition.

A short regression of total loans, CPI-adjusted tuition, and an interaction variable on total enrollment
identifies a positive but insignificant (p < 0.2)
interaction between tuition and loans.
A more sophisticated analysis might prove that the interaction does exist, but even supposing significance, the correct Cholesky ordering is non-obvious.
Based on this information, further analysis scopes loans and tuition to separate models.

Figure \ref{fig:var_results} is a graphical representation of the VAR model results.
The top row contains three-variable models of interest.
In these models, an H-1B impulse generates a first-order enrollment response.
The bottom row contains two-variable specifications that omit the intermediary enrollment response.
On the left are the loan models, and on the right are the tuition models.

The figure makes the three-variable model preference clear for tuition, but some model statistics make the case stronger with respect to the loan models.
In the two-variable loan VAR, the r-squared for the visa variable is less than 0.89, and the r-squared for the loan variable is less than 0.988.
In the three-variable specification, the r-squared for the visa variable exceeds 0.913.
The r-squared for the loan variable exceeds 0.989.
This confirms that the enrollment effect is model-improving rather than extraneous complexity.

Both three-variable models achieve significance at the 0.05 level.
SBIC indicates two lag optimization for these models.
The loan model has a sample size of 25 over the years from 1993 to 2017.
The CPI-adjusted tuition model has a sample size of 25 over the years from 1992 to 2016.

The loan model anticipates a temporary increase in total loans, followed by an eventual return to zero.
The tuition model allows for the same, but it also indicates the potential establishment of a new normal
of high real tuition prices.
It does not seem to be the case that a real-world shock would result in one or the other effect.
Instead, a real-world H-1B shock would be expected to cause both effects.
The interaction between loans and higher tuition effects is weak, as previously noted, but it is positively signed.
These models understate the effects of interest if some positive interaction does obtain.

In summary, vector autoregression provides evidence on H-1B visa issuance as a policy instrument.
H-1B policy stimulus impacts enrollment and has further indirect effects on aggregate student loans and the real price of tuition.
The dynamic response of enrollment and other dependent variables to employer assistance impulse is insignificant.

Conclusions
The first goal is to reduce administrative inequities arising from uncertainties.
The second goal is to reduce the complexity
The third policy goal is.

Of note, the CARES act amends Section 127 to temporarily allow the employer tax deduction to apply for the purposes of paying down existing student loan debts.

Logically, critical access issues appear to exist with this implementation.
Solving upward mobility only for those persons who are already employed seems to be a non-starter.
A comparatively better access approach would be to allow anyone to take the deduction.

Two additional access problems exist with those who are employed and have benefit access.
The SHRM report finds that employer assistance is increasingly being used to obtain a graduate degree.

Finally, Lumina Foundation finds that
"only 2-5 percent of eligible employees use tuition assistance programs, and 43 percent of working adults are unaware if their employer offers such a program."
Finally, 
While access problems attenuate the policy effect, the net effect may be powerful enough to result in a meaningful increase to total enrollment.

Despite logical access problems, it may be the case that the policy incentive is strong enough to generate a meaningful increase to
In practice, however, many logical effects can add to a negligible practical effect, motivating the statistical analysis in this paper.

SHRM considers this goal met because Section 127 clarified which expenses can be considered job-related expenses.
SHRM also notes that a prior issue under this policy goal was that
"Entry-level employees, for example, rarely had...legitimate educational assistance paid for by an employer."
The analysis in this paper agrees that Section 127 achieved adminsitrative clarity.
This paper suggests, however, that the clarification created an access issue by restricting legitimate education to accredited education.
This access issue precludes the achievement of certain aspects of the top-level policy goal, and results in further disadvantage to groups which are already at a disadvantage.

There is another aspect of uncertainty that Section 127 fails to address, which is uncertainty over time.
The initial bill provided for a temporary deduction.
In 2013, an amended bill created a permanent deduction.
This solved the temporal uncertainty problem for a while.
Under the CARES Act, Section 127 was amended to provide a new benefit on a temporary basis.
The new benefit is that employers may assist employees in paying down existing student loan debt, rather than only paying for new expenses, in a tax deductable way.
It is reasonable to expect such a measure will improve the student loan debt crisis in the United States.
Even so, the measure would be improved according to own policy goals by making the change permanent.

A slowdown in enrollment occurred around the time Section 127 was created.
After thorough correction, the effect of Section 127 remains negative on total enrollment over the period from 1992 to 2016.
The within-period marginal effect of increasing Section 127 assistance is positive.
Vector autoregression does not indicate that this kind of assistance is useful as a policy tool.

This analysis does indicate that the H-1B policy is an important policy tool.
An increase to the count of H-1B visas issued within-period and between periods is associated with increases in enrollment, total loans, and the price of education.
H-1B policy modification in any direction is not obviously beneficial based on these criteria alone.
Legal immigration has several additional benefits that exceed the scope of this study.
The literature generally suggests that an increase in H-1B immigration would benefit the economy.
There are substantial distributional effects, but the net distributional effect appears to be desirable.
The main effects of increased H-1B labor involve a transfer of wealth from native computer scientists to other people, and other people exhibit significantly higher need on average.

One hypothesis in this paper was that there might be some interaction between H-1B policy and Section 127 assistance.
H-1B policy specifies a college-level education as a qualifier for specialized labor.
Theoretically, this could incentivize higher college participation by natives due to competitive effects.
This study observes no evidence on this kind of effect, but the removal of the college-level qualifier may still prove beneficial.
Such a move would open the door to a broader pool of talented foreign labor.

Two changes to Section 127 are also worth consideration.
The first change addresses access issues to this deduction.
Willis Towers Watson estimates that fewer than 10 percent of eligible employees use tuition reimbursement benefits annually.
Broader Section 127 access is expected to lead to broader utilization.
Additional utilization is expected to improve the significance of the policy effect in an impulse-response specification.

This paper recommends removing the requirement that Section 127 benefit flows through an employer.
A modified Section 127 allows an individual to take a Section 127 deduction for themselves or a dependent.
Allowing dependents to take the deduction reduces the incentive for students to work full-time.
Academic performance suffers for most students that study while working full-time.
Allowing an individual to take a deduction without employment would most directly benefit the unemployed.
It would also benefit other groups who tend to be impoverished compared to those currently able to utilize Section 127.
Evidence indicates there exists significant social value due to crime reduction when relatively impoverished individuals obtain a college degree.

The second recommended change is to allow for the deduction of alternative education costs.
Many employers have ceased requiring the degree in recent years.
Removing the requirement that funds go toward college would reduce upward price pressure on college, and it could incentivize demand for alternative credentials.
Employers prefer alternative credentials for specific roles.
In many cases, obtaining an alternative credential involves a focus on obtaining a specific skill.
A relatively diverse labor pool utilizes these credentials.
Often, these credentials are also more affordable than traditional education.

